we did it guys this is the last video of
the four part camera basics series today
I'm going to be talking about kind of
the organization and workflow that goes
in to you know taking up pictures but
then putting the pictures or video onto
your computer and running them through
you know certain programs and editing
exporting all of that fun stuff the
remainder of this video will just be
screen capture because I am awesome and
I screwed up the audio of the rest of
the video so yay me so once you have all
of your content on your SD card from the
pictures and video you have taken you
want to copy them over to your computer
so the other day I hung out with a
friend in Dallas and we were shooting
some stuff for a video that I will be
posting my channel next week but I'm
just going to kind of show you my
workflow with that content so I have it
all on an SD card I am going to put the
SD card into my computer and copy over
some pictures to show you my workflow
for that usually when you are shooting
on a camera you have two options of
shooting raw or shooting JPEG or
sometimes you can shoot raw plus JPEG
the majority of the time you want to
shoot raw the file size is bigger than
JPEG but raw has the most information
and the picture and so it's going to be
the easiest to really pull out all the
colors in it and edit it and get the
picture looking the best it can't be
JPEG is good for small effect for
smaller file sizes so if you or maybe
you know transferring the pictures via
Wi-Fi or you just need you know a super
quick easy to transfer picture maybe
just do JPEG but I do raw pictures 90%
of the time this time through for some
reason my camera was set on JPEG so I'm
just dealing with JPEGs right now
so what I do is stick in the SD card
into the computer and I double click it
and then I copy over all of my pictures
into a designated folder inside of
another folder just called pictures on
my LaCie hard drive I am using a
external hard drive because there is not
enough room on my SSD on my macbook pro
I only have 256 gigs so that is just
used for my applications and stuff like
that so there is room for my
applications to use that kind of space
the hard drive is USB 3.0 so it is super
speedy and I usually don't have any
problems when editing pictures or
editing video with lag so the two
applications that I use for pictures are
Lightroom and Photoshop Lightroom is my
main application and then I only go into
Photoshop when I have to do some heavy
lifting
like you know cropping out something in
the picture that's not supposed to be
there or stuff like that so these
applications are underneath Adobe this
means you get a application to download
it lives on your toolbar and you're able
to download any of the applications that
your heart desires from Adobe this comes
at a price point of $30 a month for a
student or like 60 70 dollars a month if
you're not a student and if you just
want Lightroom plus Photoshop so just
the photography package it is cheaper at
ten dollars a month so hopping into
Lightroom
I will now import the pictures that I
just copied over onto my hard drive now
when I'm importing them into Lightroom
this is not moving the pictures this is
simply pointing Lightroom to the place
where I copied the pictures over on to
my hard drive so Lightroom is just a way
to make sense and organize the pictures
from the folder that you already have
created on your computer or on your
external hard drive so now you can view
and switch in between the images and
such and kind of you know go through the
pictures and maybe flag the ones you
like or delete the ones you don't like
it is very easy to navigate so I am
going to click on one
show you kind of the develop tab this is
where you can edit your pictures and you
know clean them up do whatever your
heart desires to them once you you know
have a look that you like you can export
them now one thing I want to kind of
touch on with Lightroom is the presets
you can download these great presets
from different companies I use the vsco
cam presets you might be familiar with
that because the vsco cam app on the
iPhone and Android is super popular for
instagramers they also release these
packs that you can pack the presets that
you can apply to your pictures to give
that cool film look so once you're done
with editing your picture you can export
them Lightroom has a set of great tools
to export your pictures and customize
the size of them your pictures are
originally super huge so like four
thousand by three thousand pixels I
usually keep it around like fifteen
hundred pixels width if I am posting to
any social media like Facebook or tumblr
so I can go down here and press long
edge fifteen hundred pixels and I
usually just specify that the pictures
that I am exporting are the edits so
I'll put edit as the suffix or prefix of
the file name and I will export them
into the same folder that I put my
pictures in in the first place so they
are all in the same place
so moving on to video this is kind of a
same concept and that I find the video
files on the SD card and I simply just
drag and drop into a specific designated
folder in my footage folder I have
already put these files into my Dallas
folder in my footage folder so I'm gonna
go ahead and open up premiere create a
new project and bring you in to a blank
canvas in there so I can show you kind
of my workflow in Premiere so once I am
into Premiere I will import the footage
that I previously had copied over from
an SD card I like to organize my footage
so it's kind of separated from you know
any music I import or any you know any
grain or titles I bring in from After
Effects or any of that so I can kind of
just organize it through this bins
system
I'm going to come in here and I'm going
to create a new timeline I keep all of
my timelines 1080p 24 frames per second
and if I have any footage that I want to
use for slow-mo I will shoot that on my
Canon DSLR and just use 720p 60 frames
per second so that means when I drop my
720p 60 frames per second footage into a
1080 24 frames per second timeline I am
going to need to enlarge that 720
footage so it will fill up the whole
1080 and then I will slow down the
footage by going and modifying the speed
and so instead of a hundred percent it
will be 40 percent because 0.4 times 60
is equal to 24 so I just conformed that
60 frames per second footage to 24
frames per second footage on my 24
frames per second timeline and now it is
smooth sailing the motion looks great
and I have my slow motion so I'm just
going to put a couple more clips
together here make a little movie
you
droppin some music and voila we have our
little 12 second movie if I want to add
some effects on specific clips I
typically use RGB curves three-way color
corrector sharpen and sometimes the luma
curve those are typically the effects
that I used to color my video I can also
add a adjustment layer over all of my
Clips if I want to apply these effects
over the entire timeline instead of just
one specific clip
so now that we have our movie I am going
to export this so we can upload it to
YouTube or Vimeo or wherever our heart
desires so I'm going to go into export
settings I usually do h.264 this is the
best Kodak if you are putting your
videos on the web if you're not if it's
not for the web and you want like best
quality you know the best quality the
closest to what it is when you're
editing I would go with a pro res Kodak
which is native to Mac machines so I'm
going to export this movie h.264 I will
go down into further down to the render
settings I do a two pass instead of one
path and then usually up the bitrate
just to you know make it make it a
little less compressed so once I have
those settings that is usually all I do
I just make sure my export is in the
location I want it I organize my exports
and my sequences and all of that in my
premiere folder it works well for me I
will export that out and we have our
movie
that is basically my photo and video
workflow I am a big fan of Adobe in
Adobe Creative Cloud I use their
applications a ton I use them for
pictures for video for any animations I
have to do you should really check them
out and check out all of the programs
and all the applications they have to
offer because you can get all of them
for a monthly subscription fee that
really isn't terrible if you are
consistently getting jobs I can see how
you know paying $30 a month or $70 a
month can be annoying if you are not
getting consistent creative jobs but in
the long run it is worth it it's worth
it to learn these programs they're
fantastic and they are becoming you know
really the industry standard so if you
have any questions regarding any of this
stuff please leave a comment below or
find me on Twitter and make sure to
follow me on Instagram I'm super excited
for next week because I am taking a
break from these photo/video videos and
I'm going to be doing more you know
travel content or maybe some vlogs and
then coming up late summer I'm going to
be starting my creative TV creative
spaces TV series so keep on a lookout
hit that subscribe button hit that like
button and thank you so much for
watching and I will see you the next one
bye guys